First draft of AGENTS file (#20)
Imageomics/TaxonoPy: AGENTS.md

# TaxonoPy – Agent Guide

Use this file primarily when operating as a coding agent. Its intent is to capture the stable workflows, tooling, and conventions that keep the project healthy even as internals evolve.

## Gather Context First
- Before editing, skim `README.md`, the GitHub wiki/issue thread tied to your task, and recent commits or PRs so you understand the current goals and accepted solutions. Many open bugs already describe reproduction datasets or GNVerifier nuances—start there instead of rediscovering them.
- Use `git log -20 --oneline` (or more if PRs include multiple commits) plus `gh issue list`, `gh pr list --state open`, and `gh pr list --state closed --limit 5` to catch both in-progress and freshly merged work.

> - When instructions here conflict with new information, trust the current codebase and update AGENTS.md alongside your change. If critical context is still missing, pause and ask the maintainer rather than guessing.

Author: Yep, wanted to make sure real history was taken into account in case something was out-of-date!

- To debug or extend a profile, run `taxonopy resolve` on a minimal repro dataset, review the `resolution_strategy` column in the output, and/or trace impacted UUIDs with `taxonopy trace entry ... --format json` to inspect attempt chains.

## Generated Artifacts & Large Assets
- `scripts/generate_gnverifier_types.py` fetches the GNVerifier OpenAPI spec and regenerates Pydantic models. Run it when the API changes; avoid manual edits to `src/taxonopy/types/gnverifier.py`.
- The `common-names` flow downloads `backbone.zip` into the cache; ensure enough disk space and don’t commit extracted TSVs.

## Contribution Habits
- Use Git only for read-only inspection (`git status`, `git log`, `git diff`). Do **not** create commits, pushes, or PRs—package maintainers handle all write actions.
- When modifying CLI behavior, resolution strategies, or caching semantics, update this AGENTS file so future agents follow the latest contract.
- Run `ruff check .`, `pytest`, and the sample `taxonopy resolve` workflow before handing off changes or opening discussions with maintainers.

> - Favor clean, well-explained fixes over quick hacks. If a solution requires domain guidance (e.g., taxonomy edge cases) or the correct approach is unclear, stop, summarize the blocker, and ask for feedback instead of layering temporary workarounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Favor clean, well-explained fixes over quick hacks. If a solution benefits from domain guidance (e.g., taxonomy edge cases) or the correct approach is unclear, stop, summarize the blocker, and ask for feedback instead of layering temporary workarounds.
```
